research-docs/Home of Elara Labs Research.md, before:

![[elara-logo.png|400]]
Welcome! This is the Elara Labs research documentation. It is an [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) vault that contains our work, all open-sourced. You can run this locally by downloading the Obsidian software, and opening it as a vault.

> **Note:** Be aware that since this vault uses a lot of [Excalidraw drawings](https://excalidraw.com/), you need to install the [Obsidian Excalidraw plugin](https://github.com/zsviczian/obsidian-excalidraw-plugin/) to be able to view them.

> **Important information for researchers:** Pages in this markdown vault should be **archived** when developed to a level of sufficient detail and completeness to be ported directly to the Elara Handbook. For this, a deprecation/archival notice should be added to the top of the page, stating that the content has been moved to the Handbook and the version currently within the repository is now archived.

## Calculations

[[Solar availability at geostationary orbit]]
[[Ideal laser beam divergence]]
[[Parabolic reflector engineering]]
[[Calculation of a hypothetical astrophysical-like artificial maser]]
[[Calculation of free electron maser parameters]]
[[Obtaining magnetic field strength]]
[[Vacuum tube Lorentz factor calculation]]
[[Computing the theoretical minimum divergence beam]]

## Engineering/designs

[[Spacecraft engineering]]
[[Parabolic reflector engineering]]
[[Solar mirror engineering]]
[[Satellite maser engineering]]
[[Wild engineering ideas]]
[[A realistic space-based prototype]]

## Prototyping and experimental testing

[[Project Elara first light design]]

## Helpful resources and guides

[[Resources and tools]]

## Guidelines

[[Financial sustainability]]
[[Open source knowledge]]
[[Technical writing guidelines]]

## Other

[[List of sources and works consulted]]

Commit message:

Added link to online docs site for easier site discovery with GitHub

research-docs/Home of Elara Labs Research.md, after:

![[elara-logo.png|400]]
Welcome! This is the Elara Labs research documentation. It is an [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) vault that contains our work, all open-sourced. You can run this locally by downloading the Obsidian software, and opening it as a vault. It is also viewable online on the [Elara Labs documentation website](https://publish.obsidian.md/elara-labs).

> **Note:** Be aware that since this vault uses a lot of [Excalidraw drawings](https://excalidraw.com/), you need to install the [Obsidian Excalidraw plugin](https://github.com/zsviczian/obsidian-excalidraw-plugin/) to be able to view them.

> **Important information for researchers:** Pages in this markdown vault should be **archived** when developed to a level of sufficient detail and completeness to be ported directly to the Elara Handbook. For this, a deprecation/archival notice should be added to the top of the page, stating that the content has been moved to the Handbook and the version currently within the repository is now archived.

## Calculations

[[Solar availability at geostationary orbit]]
[[Ideal laser beam divergence]]
[[Parabolic reflector engineering]]
[[Calculation of a hypothetical astrophysical-like artificial maser]]
[[Calculation of free electron maser parameters]]
[[Obtaining magnetic field strength]]
[[Vacuum tube Lorentz factor calculation]]
[[Computing the theoretical minimum divergence beam]]

## Engineering/designs

[[Spacecraft engineering]]
[[Parabolic reflector engineering]]
[[Solar mirror engineering]]
[[Satellite maser engineering]]
[[Wild engineering ideas]]
[[A realistic space-based prototype]]

## Prototyping and experimental testing

[[Project Elara first light design]]

## Helpful resources and guides

[[Resources and tools]]

## Guidelines

[[Financial sustainability]]
[[Open source knowledge]]
[[Technical writing guidelines]]

## Other

[[List of sources and works consulted]]
